Physics interpolation docs (#5801)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/physics/interpolation/using_physics_interpolation.rst

.. _doc_using_physics_interpolation:

Using Physics Interpolation
===========================
How do we incorporate physics interpolation into a Godot game? Are there any caveats?

We have tried to make the system as easy to use as possible, and many existing games will work with few changes. That said there are some situations which require special treatment, and these will be described.

Turn on the physics interpolation setting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The first step is to turn on physics interpolation in :ref:`ProjectSettings.physics/common/physics_interpolation<class_ProjectSettings_property_physics/common/physics_interpolation>`. You can now run your game.

It is likely that nothing looks hugely different, particularly if you are running physics at 60 tps or a similar high tick rate, however quite a bit more is happening behind the scenes.

> .. tip:: To convert an existing game to use interpolation, it is highly recommended that you temporarily set :ref:`ProjectSettings.physics/common/physics_fps<class_ProjectSettings_property_physics/common/physics_fps>` to a low value such as 10, which will make interpolation problems more obvious.

Reviewer: It's just to make the rST source a bit easier to read. It doesn't affect the generated documentation.

> .. tip:: To convert an existing game to use interpolation, it is highly recommended that you temporarily set :ref:`ProjectSettings.physics/common/physics_fps<class_ProjectSettings_property_physics/common/physics_fps>` to a low value such as 10, which will make interpolation problems more obvious.

Author: K changed. :+1:

Setting the transform of objects only within physics ticks allows the automatic interpolation to deal with transforms *between* physics ticks, and ensures the game will run the same whatever machine it is run on.

.. note:: If you attempt to set the transform of interpolated objects *outside* the physics tick, the calculations for the interpolated position will be incorrect, and you will get jitter (although this may not be visible on your machine, it will likely occur for some players). For this reason setting the transform of interpolated objects should be avoided outside of the physics tick, and Godot will attempt to produce warnings in the Editor if this case is detected.

.. tip:: This is only a "soft-rule". There are some occasions where you might want to teleport objects outside of the physics tick (for instance when starting a level, or respawning objects), but in general you should be applying transforms from the physics tick.

Ensure that all indirect movement happens during physics ticks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Consider that in Godot, Nodes can be moved not just directly in your own scripts, but also by automatic methods such as tweening, animation, and navigation. All these methods *must also* have their timing set to operate on the physics tick rather than each frame ("idle").

Reviewer: By the way, this can be a problem for animations that change both a transform and a color at the same time. Physics interpolation only affects transforms, not other properties such as modulation or opacity.

See also https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/51318 which is what could happen if you use a low physics tick rate and an AnimationPlayer running on the physics tick.

Author: Yes absolutely there are a number of cases like this. Ideally almost everything in the engine would have the capability for interpolation. It is also particularly important for sound, to avoid harsh clicking as objects move around (I don't know whether this is dealt with already in the audio with some kind of interpolation).

Author: I've now changed this to make this a bit clearer  and add the caveat that you point out that they can also be used to animate properties that are *not* interpolated.

.. note:: Also consider that nodes can be moved not just by moving themselves, but also by moving parents / ancestors in the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. The movement of ancestors should therefore also only occur during physics ticks.

Choose a physics tick rate
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This is something that you may have never changed before, but when using physics interpolation, the rendering is decoupled from physics, and you can choose something that makes sense for your game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using physics interpolation, the rendering is decoupled from physics, and you can choose any value that makes sense for your game. You are no longer limited to values that are multiples of the user's monitor refresh rate (for stutter-free gameplay if the target FPS is reached).
```

    "Simple physics behaviour"

.. note:: You can always change the tick rate as you develop, it is as simple as changing the project setting.

Call reset_physics_interpolation when teleporting objects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Although 99% of the time interpolation is what you want between two physics ticks, there is one situation in which it may *not* be what you want. That is when you are initially placing objects, or moving them to a new location, when you do not want a smooth motion between the two, but an instantaneous move.

The solution to this is quite simple, each :ref:`Node<class_Node>` has a :ref:`Node.reset_physics_interpolation<class_Node_method_reset_physics_interpolation>` function which you can call *after* setting the position / transform. The rest is done for you automatically.

Even if you forget to call this, it is not usually a problem in most situations (especially at high tick rates), and is something you can easily leave to the polishing phase of your game. The worst that will happen is seeing a streaking motion for a frame or so when you move them - you will know when you need it!

> .. important:: You should call ``reset_physics_interpolation()`` *after* setting the new position, rather than before, otherwise you may still see the unwanted streaking motion.

Author: No idea how to get this mysterious dash character :grin: ! Done apart from that lol.

> Testing and Debugging Tips
> --------------------------
> 
> As hinted earlier, even if you intend to run physics at 60tps, in order to thoroughly test your interpolation and get the smoothest gameplay, it is highly recommended to temporarily set the physics tick rate to a low value such as 10tps.
> 
> The gameplay may not work perfectly, but it should enable you to more easily see cases where you should be calling :ref:`Node.reset_physics_interpolation<class_Node_method_reset_physics_interpolation>`, or where you should be using your own custom interpolation on e.g. a :ref:`Camera<class_Camera>`. Once you have these cases fixed, you can set the physics tick rate back to the desired setting.
> 
> The other great advantage to testing at low tick rate is you can often notice other game systems that are synchronized to the physics tick and creating glitches which you may want to work around. Typical examples include setting animation blend values, which you may decide to set in ``process()`` and interpolate manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing and debugging tips
--------------------------

Even if you intend to run physics at 60 TPS, in order to thoroughly test your interpolation and get the smoothest gameplay, it is highly recommended to temporarily set the physics tick rate to a low value such as 10 TPS.

The gameplay may not work perfectly, but it should enable you to more easily see cases where you should be calling :ref:`Node.reset_physics_interpolation<class_Node_method_reset_physics_interpolation>`, or where you should be using your own custom interpolation on e.g. a :ref:`Camera<class_Camera>`. Once you have these cases fixed, you can set the physics tick rate back to the desired setting.

The other great advantage to testing at a low tick rate is you can often notice other game systems that are synchronized to the physics tick and creating glitches which you may want to work around. Typical examples include gameplay variables that vary depending on physics tick rate (such as jump height or damage over time). Another common issue is setting animation blend values, which you may decide to set in ``_process()`` and interpolate manually.
```

Author: On the change at line 72, while it is true you can notice gameplay bugs that are tick rate dependent like jump height / damage over time, these are not related to physics interpolation, so I'm not 100% sure whether it should be in this section. :thinking: Whereas blend values are, because these may need to be manually interpolated.
